SoCo 0.19 release notes
***********************

**SoCo 0.19** is the latest increment to the SoCo module. Among the
additions this time are added methods for library share handling, new
methods for relative and group volume handling and a new DIDL-Lite
class used for certain podcasts. See the full list of additions and
bugfixes below.

`SoCo (Sonos Controller) <http://python-soco.com/>`_ is a Python
package that allows you to programmatically control Sonos speakers.

New Features and Improvements
=============================

* Added class :py:class:`~soco.data_structures.DidlRecentShow` to the
  :py:mod:`~soco.data_structures` module to implement the
  added ``object.item.audioItem.musicTrack.recentShow`` DIDL-Lite
  object type. Used for podcasts etc. Pull request `#677
  <https://github.com/SoCo/SoCo/pull/677>`_.
* Add support for Python 3.8, pull reques `#679
  <https://github.com/SoCo/SoCo/pull/679>`_
* Add methods
  :py:meth:`~soco.music_library.MusicLibrary.list_library_shares` and
  :py:meth:`~soco.music_library.MusicLibrary.delete_library_share` to
  :py:class:`~soco.music_library.MusicLibrary`. Partially addresses
  issue `#678 <https://github.com/SoCo/SoCo/issues/678>`_.
* Add a :py:attr:`~soco.core.SoCo.balance` property to the
  :py:class:`~soco.core.SoCo` class, allowing get/set of speaker
  balance, pull request `#693
  <https://github.com/SoCo/SoCo/pull/693>`_. Addresses issue `#692
  <https://github.com/SoCo/SoCo/issues/692>`_. Credit to @tephlon for
  the idea and the majority of the implementation.
* Add the :py:meth:`~soco.core.SoCo.set_relative_volume` method to the
  :py:class:`~soco.core.SoCo` class, pull request `#687
  <https://github.com/SoCo/SoCo/pull/687>`_
* Add unit test for
  :py:meth:`soco.music_library.MusicLibrary.delete_library_share`
  method, pull request `#694 <https://github.com/SoCo/SoCo/pull/694>`_
* Add deprecation warning concerning the removal of Python 2.7
  support, pull request `#697
  <https://github.com/SoCo/SoCo/pull/697>`_
* Add group volume operations, pull request `#688
  <https://github.com/SoCo/SoCo/pull/688>`_

Bugfixes
========

* Fixed broken link in loudness docstring, issue `#671
  <https://github.com/SoCo/SoCo/issues/671>`_
* In :py:mod:`soco.events`, fixed bug affecting some users in code to
  determine system's own IP address. Some systems requires a valid
  port to be used (not port 0), so we use
  ``config.EVENT_LISTENER_PORT``. Pull request `#680
  <https://github.com/SoCo/SoCo/pull/680>`_.
* Copy metadata from :py:class:`~soco.data_structures.DidlItem` to
  :py:class:`~soco.ms_data_structures.MusicServiceItem` in
  :py:meth:`~soco.core.SoCo.get_queue` and events. Pull request `#589
  <https://github.com/SoCo/SoCo/pull/589>`_. Closes issues `#535
  <https://github.com/SoCo/SoCo/issues/535>`_, `#547
  <https://github.com/SoCo/SoCo/issues/547>`_ and `#552
  <https://github.com/SoCo/SoCo/issues/552>`_.
* Fixed a bug (avoid trying to iterate a None) in the
  :py:mod:`~soco.discovery` module, commit `c8e4a24
  <https://github.com/SoCo/SoCo/commit/c8e4a246addbc8891752cf65a4933a9db6ff1022>`_
